---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "vcf_cluster Data Source - terraform-provider-vcf"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# vcf_cluster (Data Source)


Provides read-only access to preexisting vSphere cluster, deployed within a Domain.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `cluster_id` (String) The ID of the Cluster to be used as data source

### Optional

- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `domain_id` (String) The ID of a workload domain that the cluster belongs to
- `domain_name` (String) The name of a workload domain that the cluster belongs to
- `host` (List of Object) List of ESXi host information present in the Cluster (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--host))
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `is_default` (Boolean) Status of the cluster if default or not
- `is_stretched` (Boolean) Status of the cluster if stretched or not
- `name` (String) Name of the domain
- `primary_datastore_name` (String) Name of the primary datastore
- `primary_datastore_type` (String) Storage type of the primary datastore
- `vds` (List of Object) vSphere Distributed Switches to add to the Cluster (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--vds))

<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `read` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--host"></a>
### Nested Schema for `host`

Read-Only:

- `availability_zone_name` (String)
- `host_name` (String) Host name of the ESXi host
- `id` (String) UUID of the commissioned host, part of this cluster
- `ip_address` (String) IPv4 address of the ESXi host
- `password` (String)
- `pnic` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--host--pnic))
- `serial_number` (String)
- `ssh_thumbprint` (String)
- `username` (String)
- `vmnic` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--host--vmnic))

<a id="nestedobjatt--host--pnic"></a>
### Nested Schema for `host.pnic`

Read-Only:

- `mac_address` (String)
- `name` (String)
- `speed` (Number)


<a id="nestedobjatt--host--vmnic"></a>
### Nested Schema for `host.vmnic`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String)
- `uplink` (String)
- `vds_name` (String)



<a id="nestedatt--vds"></a>
### Nested Schema for `vds`

Read-Only:

- `is_used_by_nsx`(Boolean)  Identifies if the vSphere distributed switch is used by NSX
- `name` (String) vSphere Distributed Switch name
- `nioc_bandwidth_allocations` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--vds--nioc_bandwidth_allocations))
- `portgroup` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--vds--portgroup))

<a id="nestedobjatt--vds--nioc_bandwidth_allocations"></a>
### Nested Schema for `vds.nioc_bandwidth_allocations`

Read-Only:

- `type` (String) Host infrastructure traffic type. Example: management, faultTolerance, vmotion, virtualMachine, iSCSI, nfs, hbr, vsan, vdp etc.
- `limit` (Number) The maximum allowed usage for a traffic class belonging to this resource pool per host physical NIC.
- `reservation` (Number) Amount of bandwidth resource that is guaranteed available to the host infrastructure traffic class.
- `shares` (Number) The number of shares allocated. Used to determine resource allocation in case of resource contention.
- `shares_level` (String) The allocation level. The level is a simplified view of shares.


<a id="nestedobjatt--vds--portgroup"></a>
### Nested Schema for `vds.portgroup`

Read-Only:

- `name` (String) Port group name
- `active_uplinks` (List of String) List of active uplinks associated with portgroup. This is only supported for VxRail.
- `transport_type` (String) Port group transport type, One among: VSAN, VMOTION, MANAGEMENT, PUBLIC, NFS, VREALIZE, ISCSI, EDGE_INFRA_OVERLAY_UPLINK
