---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "vcf_host Data Source - terraform-provider-vcf"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# vcf_host (Data Source)

The `vcf_host` data source provides information about an ESXi host in a VMware Cloud Foundation environment.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `fqdn` (String) The fully qualified domain name of the ESXi host.

### Read-Only

- `cluster` (List of Object) The cluster information of the ESXi host. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--cluster))
- `cpu` (List of Object) The CPU information of the ESXi host. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--cpu))
- `domain` (List of Object) The workload domain information of the ESXi host. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--domain))
- `hardware` (List of Object) The hardware information of the ESXi host. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--hardware))
- `id` (String) The ID of the ESXi host.
- `ip_addresses` (List of Object) The IP addresses information of the ESXi host. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ip_addresses))
- `memory` (List of Object) The memory information of the ESXi host. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--memory))
- `network_pool` (List of Object) The network pool associated with the ESXi host. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--network_pool))
- `physical_nics` (List of Object) The physical NICs information of the ESXi host. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--physical_nics))
- `status` (String) The status of the ESXi host.
- `storage` (List of Object) The storage information of the ESXi host. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--storage))
- `storage_type` (String) The storage type of the ESXi host.
- `version` (String) The version of the ESXi running on the host.

<a id="nestedatt--cluster"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cluster`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--cpu"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cpu`

Read-Only:

- `cores` (Number)
- `cpu_cores` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--cpu--cpu_cores))
- `frequency_mhz` (Number)
- `used_frequency_mhz` (Number)

<a id="nestedobjatt--cpu--cpu_cores"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cpu.cpu_cores`

Read-Only:

- `frequency_mhz` (Number)
- `manufacturer` (String)
- `model` (String)



<a id="nestedatt--domain"></a>
### Nested Schema for `domain`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String)
- `name` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--hardware"></a>
### Nested Schema for `hardware`

Read-Only:

- `hybrid` (Boolean)
- `model` (String)
- `vendor` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--ip_addresses"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ip_addresses`

Read-Only:

- `ip_address` (String)
- `type` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--memory"></a>
### Nested Schema for `memory`

Read-Only:

- `total_capacity_mb` (Number)
- `used_capacity_mb` (Number)


<a id="nestedatt--network_pool"></a>
### Nested Schema for `network_pool`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String)
- `name` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--physical_nics"></a>
### Nested Schema for `physical_nics`

Read-Only:

- `device_name` (String)
- `mac_address` (String)
- `speed` (Number)
- `unit` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--storage"></a>
### Nested Schema for `storage`

Read-Only:

- `disks` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--storage--disks))
- `total_capacity_mb` (Number)
- `used_capacity_mb` (Number)

<a id="nestedobjatt--storage--disks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `storage.disks`

Read-Only:

- `capacity_mb` (Number)
- `disk_type` (String)
- `manufacturer` (String)
- `model` (String)
