---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "vcf_certificate Resource - terraform-provider-vcf"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# vcf_certificate (Resource)

Replaces a Certificate of a Domain resource (VCENTER, SDDC_MANAGER) with a Certificate, generated by a configured
internal CA.

Prerequisites for installing a certificate:
* The SDDC Manager should be up and running.
* The resources of the target domain (e.g. MGMT) should be in ACTIVE state.
* Configured Certificate Authority.
* CSR generated for the target resource.


Warnings:
* Certificate installation will replace the already installed certificates.

Notes:
* The CSRs cannot be fetched after successful certificate installation.
* Only singleton object of a particular certificate authority will exist at any point of time in the VCF environment.
* Only the latest generated CSRs will exist in the VCF environment after a series of generate CSR operation.
* Only the latest generated certificates will exist in the VCF environment after a series of generate certificate operation.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `ca_id` (String) Certificate of the CA issuing the replacement certificate
- `csr_id` (String) The ID of the CSR generated for a resource

### Optional

- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `certificate` (List of Object) The resulting Certificate details (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--certificate))
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)
- `read` (String)
- `update` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--certificate"></a>
### Nested Schema for `certificate`

Read-Only:

- `certificate_error` (String) Error if certificate cannot be fetched. Example: Status : NOT_TRUSTED, Message : Certificate Expired
- `domain` (String) Domain of the resource certificate
- `expiration_status` (String) Certificate expiry status. One among: ACTIVE, ABOUT_TO_EXPIRE, EXPIRED
- `issued_by` (String) The certificate authority that issued the certificate
- `issued_to` (String) To whom the certificate is issued
- `key_size` (String) The key size of the certificate
- `not_after` (String) The timestamp after which certificate is not valid
- `not_before` (String) The timestamp before which certificate is not valid
- `number_of_days_to_expire` (Number) Number of days left for the certificate to expire
- `pem_encoded` (String) The PEM encoded certificate content
- `public_key` (String) The public key of the certificate
- `public_key_algorithm` (String) The public key algorithm of the certificate
- `serial_number` (String) The serial number of the certificate
- `signature_algorithm` (String) Algorithm used to sign the certificate
- `subject` (String) Complete distinguished name to which the certificate is issued
- `subject_alternative_name` (List of String) The alternative names to which the certificate is issued
- `thumbprint` (String) Thumbprint generated using certificate content
- `thumbprint_algorithm` (String) Algorithm used to generate thumbprint
- `version` (String) The X.509 version of the certificate
