---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "vcf_certificate_authority Resource - terraform-provider-vcf"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# vcf_certificate_authority (Resource)

VMware Cloud Foundation supports the ability to manage certificates by integrating with Microsoft Active Directory Certificate Services (Microsoft CA) or OpenSSL CA.
Before you can perform certificate operations using this provider you must ensure that the Microsoft Certificate Authority or OpenSSL Certificate Authority are configured correctly.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `microsoft` (Block List, Max: 1) Configuration describing Microsoft CA server (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--microsoft))
- `open_ssl` (Block List, Max: 1) Configuration describing OpenSSL CA server (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--open_ssl))
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `type` (String) Certificate authority type. "id" has the same value. Microsoft or OpenSSL

<a id="nestedblock--microsoft"></a>
### Nested Schema for `microsoft`

Required:

- `secret` (String, Sensitive) Microsoft CA server password
- `server_url` (String) Microsoft CA server URL
- `template_name` (String) Microsoft CA server template name
- `username` (String) Microsoft CA server username


<a id="nestedblock--open_ssl"></a>
### Nested Schema for `open_ssl`

Required:

- `common_name` (String) OpenSSL CA domain name
- `country` (String) ISO 3166 country code where company is legally registered
- `locality` (String) The city or locality where company is legally registered
- `organization` (String) The name under which your company is known. The listed organization must be the legal registrant of the domain name in the certificate request.
- `organization_unit` (String) Organization with which the certificate is associated
- `state` (String) Full name (do not abbreviate) of the state, province, region, or territory where your company is legally registered.


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)
- `read` (String)
- `update` (String)
