---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "vcf_csr Resource - terraform-provider-vcf"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# vcf_csr (Resource)

Prerequisites for generating CSRs:
* The SDDC Manager should be up and running.
* The resources of the target domain (e.g. MGMT) should be in ACTIVE state.

Generated CSRs are prerequisite to installing certificates of SDDC components with either
external or internal CA.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `country` (String) ISO 3166 country code where company is legally registered
- `domain_id` (String) Domain Id or Name for which the CSRs should be generated
- `email` (String) Contact email address
- `fqdn` (String) FQDN of the resource
- `key_size` (Number) Certificate public key size. One among: 2048, 3072, 4096
- `locality` (String) The city or locality where company is legally registered
- `organization` (String) The name under which your company is known. The listed organization must be the legal registrant of the domain name in the certificate request.
- `organization_unit` (String) Organization with which the certificate is associated
- `resource` (String) Resources for which the CSRs are to be generated. One among: SDDC_MANAGER, PSC, VCENTER, NSX_MANAGER, NSXT_MANAGER, VROPS, VRSLCM, VXRAIL_MANAGER
- `state` (String) Full name (do not abbreviate) of the state, province, region, or territory where your company is legally registered.

### Optional

- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `csr` (List of Object) Resulting CSR (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--csr))
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)
- `read` (String)
- `update` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--csr"></a>
### Nested Schema for `csr`

Read-Only:

- `csr_pem` (String) The resulting CSR content in encoded format
- `csr_string` (String) The resulting CSR content in decoded format
- `resource` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--csr--resource))

<a id="nestedobjatt--csr--resource"></a>
### Nested Schema for `csr.resource`

Read-Only:

- `fqdn` (String) Resource FQDN
- `name` (String) VCF 4.5.2 API does not return info for this field
- `resource_id` (String) VCF 4.5.2 API does not return info for this field
- `type` (String) VCF 4.5.2 API does not return info for this field
