---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "vcf_network_pool Resource - terraform-provider-vcf"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# vcf_network_pool (Resource)

Used to create a Network pool in the system. The added network pool would be used during domain deployments, host commission/expansion flows.
If a network pool which is already added before is added, you will get an error with HTTP status 400.
If a malformed network pool is added (payload for network parameters, name which is already exist), you will get an error.

The following data is prerequisite for creating a new Network Pool

* Name
* List of networks associated with network pool in which each network has
  * Network type - It can be VSAN, VMOTION or NFS Type.
  * VLAN ID - Valid Vlan id range is 0 to 4096.
  * MTU - Valid MTU range is 1500 to 9216.
  * Subnet - Networks of diferent types (e.g. VSAN/VMOTION/NFS) must not have overlapping subnets
  * Subnet mask
  * gateway - The gateway defined for the specified subnet
  * List of IP address ranges - the start and end IP address of each IP Pool should be part of the subnet


<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the network pool
- `network` (Block List, Min: 1) Represents a network in a network pool (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--network))

### Optional

- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--network"></a>
### Nested Schema for `network`

Required:

- `vlan_id` (Number) VLAN ID associated with the network

Optional:

- `gateway` (String) Gateway for the network
- `ip_pools` (Block List) List of IP pool ranges to use (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--network--ip_pools))
- `mask` (String) Subnet mask for the subnet of the network
- `mtu` (Number) Gateway for the network
- `subnet` (String) Subnet associated with the network
- `type` (String) Network Type of the network

<a id="nestedblock--network--ip_pools"></a>
### Nested Schema for `network.ip_pools`

Optional:

- `end` (String) End IP address of the IP pool
- `start` (String) Start IP address of the IP pool



<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
